The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Treasure Trail, by Frank L. Pollock

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

“Lord! what a haul!” Elliott murmured to himself, glancing over his
letter while he waited with the horses for Margaret, who had said that
she would be just twelve minutes in putting on her riding-costume. The
letter was from an old-time Colorado acquaintance who was then
superintending a Transvaal gold mine, and, probably by reason of the
exigencies of war, the epistle had taken over two months to come from
Pretoria. Elliott had been able to peruse it only by snatches, for the
pinto horse with the side-saddle was fidgety, communicating its
uneasiness to his own mount.

“And managed to loot the treasury of over a million in gold, they say,
and got away with it all. The regular members of the Treasury
Department were at the front, I suppose, with green hands in their
places,” he read.

It was a great haul, indeed. Elliott glanced absently along the muddy
street of the Nebraska capital, and his face hardened into an
expression that was not usual. It was on the whole a good-looking
face, deeply tanned, with a pleasant mouth and a small yellowish
moustache that lent a boyishness to his whole countenance, belied by
the mesh of fine lines about the eyes that come only of years upon the
great plains. The eyes were gray, keen, and alive with a spirit of
enterprise that might go the length of recklessness; and their owner
was, in fact, reflecting rather bitterly that during the past ten
years all his enterprises had been too reckless, or perhaps not
reckless enough. He had not had the convictions of his courage. The
story of the stealings of a ring of Boer ex-officials had made him
momentarily regret his own passable honesty; and it struck him that in
his present strait he would not care to meet the temptation of even
less than a million in gold, with a reasonable chance of getting away
with it.

This subjective dishonesty was cut short by Margaret, who hurried down
the veranda steps, holding up her brown riding-skirt. She surveyed the
pinto with critical consideration.

“Warranted not to pitch,” Elliott remarked. “The livery-stable man
said a child could ride him.”

“You’d better take him, then. I don’t want him,” retorted Margaret

“This one may be even more domestic. What in the world are you going
to do with that gun?”

“Don’t let Aunt Louisa see it; she’s looking out the window,” implored
Margaret, her eyes dancing. “I want to shoot when we get out of town.
Put it in your pocket, please,—that’s against the law, you know.
You’re not afraid of the law, are you?”

“I am, indeed. I’ve seen it work,” Elliott replied; but he slipped the
black, serviceable revolver into his hip pocket, and reined round to
follow her. She had scrambled into the saddle without assistance, and
was already twenty yards down the street, scampering away at a speed
unexpected from the maligned pinto, and she had crossed the Union
Pacific tracks before he overtook her. From that point it was not far
to the prairie fields and the barbed-wire fences. The brown Nebraska
plains rolled undulating in scallops against the clear horizon; in the
rear the great State House dome began to disengage itself from a mass
of bare branches. The road was of black, half-dried muck, the potent
black earth of the wheat belt, without a pebble in it, and deep ruts
showed where wagons had sunk hub-deep a few days before.

A fresh wind blew in their faces, coming strong and pure from the
leagues and leagues of moist March prairie, full of the thrill of
spring. Riding a little in the rear, Elliott watched it flutter the
brown curls under Margaret’s grey felt hat, creased in rakish
affectation of the cow-puncher’s fashion. Now that he was about to
lose her, he seemed to see her all at once with new eyes, and all at
once he realized how much her companionship had meant to him during
these past six months in Lincoln,—a half-year that had just come to so
disastrous an end.

Margaret Laurie lived with her aunt on T Street, and gave lessons in
piano and vocal music at seventy-five cents an hour. Her mother had
been dead so long that Elliott had never heard her mentioned; the
father was a Methodist missionary in foreign parts. During the whole
winter Elliott had seen her almost daily. They had walked together,
ridden together, skated together when there was ice, and had fired off
some twenty boxes of cartridges at pistol practice, for which
diversion Margaret had a pronounced aptitude as well as taste. She had
taught him something of good music, and he confided to her the
vicissitudes of the real estate business in a city where a boom is
trembling between inflation and premature extinction. It had all been
as stimulating as it had been delightful; and part of its charm lay in
the fact that there had always been the frankest camaraderie between
them, and nothing else. Elliott wished for nothing else; he told
himself that he had known enough of the love of women to value a
woman’s friendship. But on this last ride together he felt as if
saturated with failure—and it was to be the last ride.

Margaret broke in upon his meditations. “Please give me the gun,” she
commanded. “And if it’s not too much trouble, I wish you’d get one of
those empty tomato-cans by the road.”

“You can’t hit it,” ventured Elliott, as he dismounted and tossed the
can high in the air. The pistol banged, but the can fell untouched,
and the pinto pony capered at the report.

“Better let me hold your horse for you,” Elliott commented, with a
grin.

“No, thank you,” she retorted, setting her teeth. “Now,—throw it up
again.”

This time, at the crack of the revolver, the can leaped a couple of
feet higher, and as it poised she hit it again. Two more shots missed,
and the pinto, becoming uncontrollable, bolted down the road,
scattering the black earth in great flakes. Elliott galloped in
pursuit, but she was perfectly capable of reducing the animal to
submission, and she had him subjected before he overtook her.

“It’s easier than it looks,” Margaret instructed him, kindly. “You
shoot when the can poises to fall, when it’s really stationary for a
second.”

“Thank you—I’ve tried it,” Elliott responded, as they rode on side by
side, at the easy lope of the Western horse. The wind sang in their
ears, though it was warm and sunny, and it was bringing a yellowish
haze up the blue sky.

    “‘Weh, weh, der Wind!’”

hummed Margaret, softly.

    “‘Frisch weht der Wind der Heimath zu;
    Mein Irisch Kind, wo weilest Du——?’”

“What a truly Western combination,—horses, Wagner, and gun-play!”
remarked Elliott.

“Of course it is. Where else in the world could you find anything like
it? It’s the Greek ideal—action and culture at once.”

“It may be Greek. But I know it would startle the Atlantic coast.”

“I don’t care for the Atlantic coast. Or—yes, I do. I’m going to tell
you a great secret. Do you know what I’ve wanted more than anything
else in life?”

“Your father must be coming home from the South Seas,” Elliott
hazarded.

“Dear old father! He isn’t in the South Seas now; he’s in South
Africa. No, it isn’t that. I’m going to Baltimore this fall to study
music. I’ve been arguing it for weeks with Aunt Louisa. I wanted to go
to New York or Boston, but she said the Boston winter would kill me,
and New York was too big and dangerous. So we compromised on
Baltimore.”

“Hurrah!” said Elliott, with some lack of enthusiasm. “Baltimore is a
delightful town. I used to be a newspaper man there before I came West
and became an adventurer. I wish I were going to anything half so
good.”

“You’re not leaving Lincoln, are you?” she inquired, turning quickly
to look at him.

“I’m afraid I must.”

“When are you going, and where?” she demanded, almost peremptorily.

“I don’t exactly know. I had thought of trying mining again,” with a
certain air of discouragement.

Margaret looked the other way, out across the muddy sheet of water
known locally as Salt Lake, where a flock of wild ducks was fluttering
aimlessly over the surface; and she said nothing.

“I suppose you know that the bottom’s dropped out of the land boom in
Lincoln,” Elliott pursued. “I’ve seen it dropping for a month; in
fact, there never was any real boom at all. Anyhow, the real estate
office of Wingate Elliott, Desirable City Property Bought and Sold,
closed up yesterday.”

“You don’t mean that you have—”

“Failed? Busted? I do. I’ve got exactly eighty-two dollars in the
world.”

She began to laugh, and then stopped, looking at him
half-incredulously.

“You don’t appear to mind it much, at least.”

“No? Well, you see it’s happened so often before that I’m used to it.
Good Lord! it seems to me that I’ve left a trail of ineffectual
dollars all over the West!”

“You do mind it—a great deal!” exclaimed Margaret, impulsively putting
a hand upon his bridle. “Please tell me all about it. We’re good
friends—the very best, aren’t we?—but you’ve told me hardly anything
about your life.”

“There’s nothing interesting about it; nothing but looking for easy
money and not finding it,” replied Elliott. He was scrutinizing the
sky ahead. “Don’t you think we had better turn back? Look at those
clouds.”

The firmament had darkened to the zenith with a livid purple tinge low
in the west, and the wind was blowing in jerky, powerful gusts. A
growl of thunder rumbled overhead.

“It’s too early for a twister, and I don’t mind rain. I’ve nothing on
that will spoil,” said Margaret, almost abstractedly. She had scarcely
spoken when there was a sharp patter, and then a blast of drops driven
by the wind. A vivid flash split the clouds, and with the
instantaneous thunder the patter of the rain changed to a rattle, and
the black road whitened with hail. The horses plunged as the hard
pellets rebounded from hide and saddle.

“We must get shelter. The beasts won’t stand this,” cried Elliott,
reining round. The lumps of ice drove in cutting gusts, and the
frightened horses broke into a gallop toward the city. For a few
moments the storm slackened; then a second explosion of thunder seemed
to bring a second fusilade, driving almost horizontally under the
violent wind, stinging like shot.

Across an unfenced strip of pasture Elliott’s eye fell upon the Salt
Lake spur of the Union Pacific tracks, where a mile of rails is used
for the storage of empty freight-cars. He pulled his horse round and
galloped across the intervening space, with Margaret at his heels, and
in half a minute they had reached the lee of the line of cars, where
there was shelter. He hooked the bridles over the iron handle of a
box-car door that stood open, and scrambled into the car, swinging
Margaret from her saddle to the doorway.

It was a perfect refuge. The storm rattled like buckshot on the roof
and swept in cloudy pillars across the Salt Lake, where the wild ducks
flew to and fro, quacking from sheer joy, but the car was clean and
dry, slightly dusted with flour. They sat down in the door with their
feet dangling out beside the horses, that shivered and stamped at the
stroke of chance pellets of hail.

“This is splendid!” said Margaret, looking curiously about the planked
interior of the car. “Why do you want to leave Lincoln?” she went on
in a lower tone, after a pause.

“I don’t want to leave Lincoln.”

“But you said just now—”

“It seems to me, by Jove, that I’ve done nothing but leave places ever
since I came West!” Elliott exclaimed, impatiently. “That was ten
years ago. I came out from Baltimore, you know. I was born there, and
I learned newspaper work on the _Despatch_ there, and then I came West
and got a job on the Denver _Telegraph_.”

“At a high salary, I suppose.”

“So high that it seemed a sort of gold mine, after Eastern rates. But
it didn’t last. The paper was sold and remodelled inside a year, and
most of the reporters fired. I couldn’t find another newspaper job
just then, so I went out with a survey party in Dakota for the winter
and nearly froze to death, but when I got back and drew all my
accumulated salary, I bought a half-interest in a gold claim in the
Black Hills. Mining in the Black Hills was just beginning to boom
then, and I sold my claim in a couple of months for three thousand. I
made another three thousand in freighting that summer, and if I had
stayed at it I might have got rich, but I came down to Omaha and lost
it all playing the wheat market. I had a sure tip.”

“Six thousand dollars! That’s more money than I ever saw all at once,”
Margaret commented.

“It was more money than I saw for some time after that; but that’s a
fair specimen of the way I did things. Once I walked into Seattle
broke, and came out with four thousand dollars. I cleaned up nearly
twenty thousand once on real estate in San Francisco. Afterwards I
went down to Colorado, mining. I could almost have bought up the whole
Cripple Creek district when I got there, if I had had savvy enough,
but I let the chance slip, and when I did go to speculating my capital
went off like smoke. The end of it was that I had to go into the mines
and swing a pick myself.”

“You were game, it seems, anyway,” said Margaret, who was listening
with absorbed interest. The sky was clearing a little, and the hail
had ceased, but the rain still swept in gusty clouds over the brown
prairie.

“I had to be. It did me good, and I got four dollars a day, and in six
months I was working a claim of my own. By this time I thought I was
wise, and I sold it as soon as I found a sucker. I got ten thousand
for it, and I heard afterwards that he took fifty thousand out of it.”

“What a fraud!” cried Margaret, indignantly.

“Anyhow, I bought a little newspaper in a Kansas town that was just
drawing its breath for a boom. I worked for it till I almost got to
believe in that town myself. At one time my profits in corner lots and
things—on paper, you know—were up in the hundreds of thousands. In the
end, I had to sell for less than one thousand, and then I came to
Lincoln and worked for the paper here. That was two years ago, when I
first met you. Do you remember?”

“I remember. You only stayed about four months. What did you do then?”

“Yes, it seemed too slow here, too far east. I went back to North
Dakota, mining and country journalism. I did pretty well too, but for
the life of me I don’t know what became of the money. After that I
did—oh, everything. I rode a line on a ranch in Wyoming; I worked in a
sawmill in Oregon; I made money in some places and lost it in others.
Eight months ago I had a nice little pile, and I heard that there was
a big opening in real estate here in Lincoln, so I came.”

“And wasn’t there an opening?”

“There must have been. It swallowed up all my little pile without any
perceptible effect, all but eighty-two dollars.”

“And now—?”

“And now—I don’t know. I was reading a letter just now from a man I
know in South Africa telling of a theft of a million in gold from the
Pretoria treasury during the confusion of the war. Do you know, I
half-envied those thieves; I did, honour bright. A quick million is
what I’ve always been chasing, and I’d almost steal it if I got the
chance.”

“You wouldn’t do any thing of the sort. I know you better than that.
You’re going to do something sensible and strong and brave. What is it
to be?”

“But I don’t know,” cried Elliott. “There are heaps of things that I
can do, but I tell you I feel sick of the whole game. I feel as if I’d
been wasting time and money and everything.”

“So you have, dear boy, so you have,” agreed Margaret. “And now, if
you’d let me advise you, I’d tell you to find out what you like best
and what you can do best, and settle down to that. You’ve had no
definite purpose at all.”

“I have. It was always a quick fortune,” Elliott remonstrated. “I’ve
got it yet. There are plenty of chances in the West for a man to make
a million with less capital than I’ve got now. This isn’t a country of
small change.”

“Yes, I know. I’ve heard men talk like that,” said Margaret, more
thoughtfully. “But it seems to me that you’ve been doing nothing but
gamble all your life, hoping for a big haul. Of course, I’ve no right
to advise you. Nebraska is all I know of the world, but I don’t like
to think of you going back to the ‘game,’ as you call it. Do you know
that it hurts me to think of you making money and losing it again,
year after year, and neglecting all your real chances? Too many men
have done that. A few of them won, but nobody knows where most of them
died. There are such chances to do good in the world, to be happy
ourselves and make others happy, and when I think of a man like my
father—”

“You wouldn’t want me to go to Fiji as a missionary?” Elliott
interrupted. He was shy on the subject of her father, whom Margaret
had seen scarcely a dozen times since she could remember, but who was
her constant ideal of heroism, energy, and virtue.

“Of course not. But don’t you like newspaper work?”

“I like it very much.”

“And isn’t it a good profession?”

“Very fair, if one works like a slave. That is, I might reach a salary
of five thousand dollars a year. The best way is to buy out a small
country daily and build it up as the town grows. There’s money in that
sometimes.”

“Why not do it, then? It’s not for the sake of the money. I hate
money; I’ve never had any. But I don’t believe any one can be really
happy after he’s twenty-five without a definite purpose and a kind of
settled life. Some day you’ll want to marry—”

“Don’t say that. I’ve been a free lance too long!” cried Elliott.

“I’ve always been afraid of matrimony, too,” said Margaret, with a
quick flush. “I want my own life, all my own.”

“But what you say is right, dead right,” said Elliott, after a
reflective pause that lasted for several minutes. “It’s just what my
own conscience has been telling me.” He stopped to meditate again.

“I’ll tell you what I think I’ll do,” he proceeded, at last. “I’ll go
over to Omaha and look for a job on one of the dailies there. I expect
I can get it, and it’ll give me time to think over my plans.

“You’re not going East till fall, and I can run across here often, so
that I’ll be able to see you. I may go East this fall myself. You’ve
just crystallized what I’ve been thinking. I will do something to
surprise you, and I’ll make a fortune with it. Will you shake hands on
it?”

She pulled off the riding-gauntlet and put out her hand, meeting his
eyes squarely. The deep flush still lingered in her cheeks.

“We _are_ good friends,” he exclaimed, feeling a desire to say
something, he scarcely knew what.

“The very best!” said Margaret, looking bright-eyed at him. “I hope we
always will be. Come,” she cried, pulling her hand away. “The storm’s
over. Let’s go back.”

The rain had made the road very sticky, and they rode slowly side by
side, while Margaret chattered vivaciously of her own future, of her
music, of the coming winter in the East. She was full of plans, and
Elliott sunk his own perplexities to share in her enthusiasm. He was
himself imbued with the cheerfulness that comes of good resolutions,
whose difficulties are yet untried.

“When are you going to Omaha?” she asked him, as he left her at the
gate.

“In a couple of days. I’ll see you, of course, before I go.”

He packed his two trunks that night. He did not see her again,
however, for she happened to be out when he called to make his
farewell. He was unreasonably annoyed at this disappointment, and
thought of delaying his departure another day, but he was afraid that
she would consider it weak. Anyhow, he expected to be back in Lincoln
within a fortnight, and he left that night for Omaha.

The next couple of days he spent in a round of visits to the offices
of the various Omaha newspapers. He found every staff filled to its
capacity. There was a prospect of a vacancy in about a month, but it
was too long to wait, and, happening to hear that the St. Joseph
_Post_ was looking for a new city editor, he went thither with a
letter of introduction from the manager of the Omaha _Bee_.




                      CHAPTER II. THE OPEN ROAD


“That’s number eighteen, and the red,” said the croupier behind the
roulette-table, raking in the checks that the player had scattered
about the checkered layout. Round went the ball again with a whirr,
though there were no fresh stakes placed.

In fact, Elliott had no more to place. The stack of checks he had
purchased was exhausted, and he had no mind to buy more. He slid down
from the high stool and stepped back, and with the fever of the game
still throbbing in his blood, he watched the little ivory ball as it
spun. It slackened speed; in a moment it would jump; and Elliott
suddenly felt—he _knew_—what the result would be. He thrust his hand
into his pocket where a crumpled bill lingered, and it was on his lips
to say “Five dollars on the single zero, straight,” when the ball
tripped on a barrier and fell.

“That’s the single zero,” said the croupier, and spun the ball again.

Elliott turned away, shrugging his shoulders. “That’s enough for me
to-night,” he remarked, with an affectation of unconcern. He had no
luck; he could predict the combinations only when he did not stake.

The sleepy negro on guard drew the bolt for him to pass out, and he
went down the stairs to the precipitous St. Joseph streets, at that
hour, silent and deserted. It was a mild spring night, and the air
smelled sweet after the heavy atmosphere of the gaming-rooms. A full
moon dimmed the electric lights, and his steps echoed along the empty
street as he walked slowly toward the river-front, where the muddy
Missouri rolled yellow in the sparkling moonlight.

As the coolness quieted his nerves he was filled with sickening
disgust at his own folly and weakness. “Why had he done it?” he asked
himself. He had never been a gambler, in the usual sense of the word.
His ventures had always been staked upon larger and more vital events
than the turn of a card or of a wheel, but after finding that he had
come to St. Joseph upon a fruitless quest, after all, he had gone to
the gaming-rooms with one of the _Post’s_ reporters, who was showing
him the town. In his depression and weariness and curiosity he had
begun to stake small sums and to win. He remembered scarcely anything
more. He had won largely; then the luck changed. He had sat down at
the table with nearly seventy dollars. How much was left?

He had reached the bottom of the street, and, crossing the railway
tracks, he walked out upon the long pier that extends into the river
and sat down upon a pile of planks. A freight-train outbound for St.
Louis shattered the night as it banged over the noisy switches, and
then silence fell again upon the yellow river. In the unsleeping
railway-yards to the east there was an incessant flash and flicker of
swinging lanterns.

He turned out his pockets. There was the five-dollar bill that he had
saved from the wheel, and a quantity of loose silver,—eighty-five
cents. With a lively emotion of pleasure he discovered another folded
five-dollar bill in his pocketbook which he had not suspected. Ten
dollars and eighty-five cents was the total amount. It was all that
was left of his former capital, or it was the nucleus of his new
fortunes, as he should choose to consider it.

At the memory of the promises he had made scarcely a hundred hours ago
to Margaret Laurie, he shivered with shame and self-reproach, and in
his remorse he realized more clearly than ever the truth of her words.
He was wasting his life, his time, and his money; and already the
endless chase of the rainbow’s end began to seem no longer desirable.
In an access of gloom he foresaw years and years of such unprofitable
existence as he had already spent, alternations of impermanent success
and real disaster, of useless labour, of hardship that had lost its
romance and come to be as sordid as poverty, and for the sum of it
all, Failure. The fitful fever of such a life could have no place for
the quiet and graceful pleasures that he had almost forgotten, but
which seemed just then to lie at the basis of happiness and success;
and suddenly in his mind there arose a vision of the old city on the
Chesapeake Bay, its crooked and narrow streets named after long dead
colonial princes, its shady gardens, the Southern indolence, the
Southern quiet and perfume.

That was where Margaret was going, and there perhaps he had left what
he should have clung to; and, as he turned this matter over in his
mind, he remembered another fact of present importance. One of the men
with whom he had worked on the Baltimore _Mail_ had within the last
year become its city editor. He had written offering Elliott a
position should he want it, but Elliott had never seriously considered
the proposition.

Now, however, he jumped at it. “The West’s too young for me,” he
reflected. “I’d better get out of the game.” He would write to Grange
for the job that night, and he would be in Baltimore long before
Margaret would arrive there. No, he would start for the East that
night without writing,—and then he was chilled by the memory of his
reduced circumstances. A ticket to Baltimore would cost thirty-five
dollars at least.

But the Westerner’s first lesson is to regard distance with contempt.
Elliott had travelled without money before, but it was where he knew
obliging freight conductors who would give him a lift in the caboose,
while between the Mississippi and the Atlantic was new ground to him.
Nevertheless he was unable to bring himself to regard the thousand odd
miles as a real obstacle. He could walk to the Mississippi if he had
to; it would be no novelty. Once on the river he could get a cheap
deck passage to Pittsburg, or he might even work his passage.
Probably, however, he could get a temporary job in St. Louis which
would supply expenses for the journey. As for his baggage, it would go
by express C. O. D., and he could draw enough advance salary in
Baltimore to pay for it.

As he walked back to his hotel, he felt as if he were already in
Baltimore, regardless of the long and probably hard road that had
first to be travelled. That part of it, indeed, struck him rather in
the light of a joke. A few rough knocks were needed to seal his good
resolutions firmly this time, and the tramp to the Mississippi would
be a sort of penance, a pilgrimage.

He debated whether to write to Margaret, and decided that he had
better not. It would not be pleasant to confess; at least it would be
preferable to wait until he was launched upon the new and industrious
career which he had planned. He would write from Baltimore, not
before.

That night he laid out his roughest suit, and it was still early the
next morning when he tramped out of St. Joseph. His baggage was in the
hands of the express company, and he carried no load; despite his
penury he preferred to buy things than to “pack” them. He followed the
tracks of the Burlington Railroad with the idea that this would give
him a better and straighter route than the highway, as well as a
greater certainty of encountering villages at regular intervals. He
was unencumbered, strong, and hopeful, and he rejoiced, smoking his
pipe in the cool air, as he left the last streets behind, and saw the
steel rails running out infinitely between the brown corn-fields and
the orchards, straight into the shining West.

For a long time Elliott remembered that day as one of the most
enjoyable he ever spent. It was warm enough to be pleasant; the track,
ballasted heavily with clay, made a delightfully elastic footpath; on
either side were pleasant bits of woodland dividing the brown fields
where the last year’s cornstalks were scattered, and farmhouses and
orchards clustered on the rolling slopes. Where they lay beside the
track the air was full of the hoarse “booing” of doves; and, after the
rawness of the treeless plains, this seemed to Elliott a land of
ancient comfort, of long-founded homesteads, and all manner of
richness.

He had intended to ask for dinner at one of the farmhouses, where they
would charge him only a trifle, but he developed a nervous fear of
being taken for a tramp. Again and again he selected a house in the
distance where he resolved to make the essay; approached it
resolutely—and weakly passed by, finding some excuse for his
hesitation. It was too imposing, or too small; it looked as if dinner
were not ready, or as if it were already over; and all the time hunger
was growing more acute in his vitals. About one o’clock, however, he
came to a little village, just as his appetite was growing
uncontrollable. He cast economy to the dogs, went to the single hotel,
washed off the dust at the pump, and fell upon the hot country dinner
of coarse food supplied in unlimited quantity. It cost twenty-five
cents, but it was worth it; and after it was all over he strolled
slowly down the track, and finally sat down in the spring sun and
smoked till he softly fell asleep.

He was awakened by the roar of an express-train going eastward, and it
occurred to him that his baggage must be aboard that train, travelling
in ease while its owner plodded between the rails. It was after two
o’clock; he had rested long enough, and he returned to the track and
took up the trail again.

At sunset he reached Hamilton, and his time-table folder indicated
that he had travelled twenty-seven miles that day. At this rate he
would reach the Mississippi in less than a week, and he felt only an
ordinary sense of healthy fatigue and an extraordinary appetite.

He was charged a quarter for supper that evening at a farmhouse, and
before dark he had reached the next village. There was a bit of
woodland near by where he imagined that he could encamp, and as it had
been a warm day he thought a fire would be unnecessary. So in the
twilight he scraped together a heap of last year’s leaves, and spread
his coat blanket-wise over his shoulders. It reminded him of many
camps in the mountains, and he went to sleep almost at once, for he
was very tired.

A sensation of extreme cold awoke him. It was dark; the stars were
shining above the trees, and, looking at his watch by a match flare,
he learned that it was a quarter to twelve. But the cold was
unbearable; he lay and shivered miserably for half an hour, and then
got up to look for wood for a fire. In the darkness he could find
nothing, and, thoroughly awake by this time, he abandoned the camp and
went back through the gloom to the railway station, where half a dozen
empty box cars stood upon the siding. Clambering into one of these, it
appeared comparatively warm; it reminded him of Margaret and of the
hail upon Salt Lake,—things which already seemed very far away.

His rest that night was shattered at frequent intervals by the crash
of passing freight-trains. They stopped, backed, and shunted within
six feet of him with a clatter of metal like a collapsing foundry, a
noise of loud talking and swearing, and a swinging flash of lanterns.
Drowsily Elliott fancied that his car was likely to be attached to
some train and hauled away, perhaps to St. Louis, perhaps to St.
Joseph, but in the stupefaction of sleep he did not care where he
went; and, in fact, when he awoke he saw the little village still
visible through the open side door, looking strange and unfamiliar in
the gray dawn. Grass and fences were white with hoarfrost.

At five o’clock that afternoon Elliott was twenty-two miles nearer the
Mississippi. He had just passed a small station. His time-table told
him that there was another eight miles away, and he decided to reach
it and spend the night in one of its empty freight-cars, for he had
learned that camping without a fire was not practicable.

He reached the desired point just as it was growing dark. Point is the
word, for it was nothing else. There was no depot there, no houses, no
siding,—nothing whatever but a name painted on a mocking plank beside
the track. It was a crossroads flag-station. Elliott had failed to
notice the “f” opposite the name in the time-table.

The sun had set in clouds and a fine cold rain was beginning. The sky
looked black as iron. A camp in the rain was out of the question. The
next village was five miles away, but he would have to reach it.

It was a dark night, but it never grows entirely dark in the open air,
as house-dwellers imagine, and as he went on he could make out looming
masses of forest on either hand. The country seemed to be growing
marshy; he came to several long trestles, which he crossed in fear of
an inopportune train.

Presently the track plunged into a sort of swamp, where the trees came
close and black on both sides. The rain pattered in pools of water,
and through the wet air darted great fireflies in streaks of bluish
light. Their fading trails crossed among the rotting trees, and from
the depths of the marsh sounded such a chorus of frog voices as he had
never dreamed of, in piccolo, tenor, bass, screeching and thrumming.
In the deepest recesses some weird reptile emitted at regular
intervals a rattling Mephistophelean laugh. It impressed Elliott with
a kind of horror,—the blue witch-fires flashing through the rain, the
reptilian voices, and that ghastly laugh from the decaying woods; and
he hastened to leave it behind.

It proved a very long five miles to the next station, and he was wet
through and stumbling with weariness when he reached it. The village
was pitch-dark; not a light burned about the station except the steady
switch-lamps; not a freight-car stood upon the siding. There was not
even a roof over the platform, and, too tired to look for shelter,
Elliott dropped upon a pile of lumber by the track, and went heavily
to sleep in the rain.

The hideous clangour of a passing express-train awoke him; he was
growing accustomed to such awakenings. It was an hour from sunrise.
Close to him stood the little red station and a great water-tank. The
village was still asleep among the dripping trees. Not a smoke arose
from any chimney.

It had stopped raining, and the east was clearer. Elliott was wet
through, cold and stiff, and he found his feet sore and swollen. He
was not in training for so much pedestrian exercise, and he had
overdone it.

But the solitary hotel of the village awoke early, and Elliott did not
have to wait long for breakfast. Shortly after sunrise, strengthened
with hot coffee, he was renewing the march, finding every step
exquisitely painful. The romance of this sort of vagabondage was fast
evaporating, and the thought of the seventy dollars that he had wasted
in St. Joseph infuriated him.

When the sun rose high enough to dry his garments, he sat down,
removed his coat, and steamed gently. After this respite the pain in
his blistered soles was worse than ever, but he trudged stoically on.
After an hour it grew dulled till he scarcely noticed it, and about
noon he reached Redwood.

Near the station there was a small lunchroom, where Elliott satisfied
his appetite, and he returned to the railway, sat upon a pile of ties,
lighted his pipe, and reflected. The endless line of shining rails
running eternally eastward was loathsome to his eyes.

“I’ve overdone it at the start. I ought to lie up and rest for a day
or two,” he said to himself. But even walking appeared preferable to
idling in the scraggly village, and he suddenly determined that he
would neither idle nor yet walk, but nevertheless he would be in
Hannibal in two days.

He sat on the pile of ties for over an hour. A ponderous freight-train
dragged up to the station, went upon the siding and waited till the
fast express flashed past without stopping. Then the freight got
clumsily under way again with a tremendous clank and clamour. At it
rolled slowly past, Elliott saw a side door half-open. He ran after
it, swung himself up by his elbows, and tumbled head first into the
car.

The train went on, gradually gaining speed. There were loose handfuls
of corn scattered about the car from its last load. Elliott slid the
door almost shut and sat down on the floor, wondering if the crew had
seen him get aboard.

The train was attaining a considerable speed and the car was flung
over the rails with shattering jolts. Through the cranny of the door
Elliott saw trees and fields sweep by, and he was considering
pleasantly that he had already travelled an hour’s walk, when a heavy
trampling of feet sounded on the roof of the pitching car.

He listened with some uneasiness. The feet reached the end of the car;
he heard them coming down the iron ladder, and then a face, a grimed
but not unfriendly face, topped by a blue cap, appeared at the little
slide in the end.

“Hello!” called the brakeman, peering into the dark interior. “I know
you’re there. I seen you get in. I kin see you now.”

At this culminative address, Elliott came out of his dusky corner.

“Where you goin’?” demanded the brakeman.

“Why, I’d like to stay right with this train. It’s going my way,”
replied Elliott. “You don’t mind, do you?”

“Dunno as I do,—but you can’t ride this train free.”

“Oh, that’s all right,” responded the trespasser. “I’m pretty short or
else I’d be on the cushions instead of here, but I don’t mind putting
up a quarter. Does that go?”

“I reckon,” said the brakeman, unhesitatingly. “This train don’t go
only to Brookfield; that’s the division point. Keep the door shet, an’
don’t let nobody see you.”

He went back to the top of the train. Elliott felt as if he had been
swindled, for Brookfield was only twenty-five miles away. However, he
hoped to catch another freight that afternoon and make as many more
miles before sunset, and he settled himself as comfortably as possible
on the jolting floor and lighted his pipe.

He had time to smoke many pipes before reaching Brookfield, for it was
nearly two hours before the heavy train rolled into the yards. Elliott
climbed out upon the side-ladder and swung to the ground before the
train stopped, to avoid a possible railway constable. Considerably to
his surprise, he saw half a dozen rusty-looking vagrants hanging to
the irons and jumping off at the same time. He had had more fellow
passengers than he had suspected, and it struck him that
freight-breaking must be rather a lucrative employment.

All the rest of that afternoon Elliott watched the freight-yards, but,
though some trains departed eastward, they appeared to contain no
empty cars. After supper he returned to the railroad, and remained
there till it grew dark. Trains came and went; there were engines
hissing and panting without cease; all the dozen tracks were crowded
with cars, and up and down the narrow alleys between them hastened men
with lanterns, talking and swearing loudly. The crash and jar of
coupling and shunting went on ceaselessly, and this activity did not
lessen, and the night passed, for Brookfield was one of the “division
points” on the main line of a great railroad.

It was nearly midnight when Elliott observed that a train was being
made up with the caboose on the western end. He walked its length; the
switchmen paid no attention to him, and he discovered an empty box car
about the middle of the train, and into it he climbed without delay.
For another half-hour, however, the manipulation of the cars
continued, with successive violent shocks as fresh cars were coupled
on. The whole train seemed to be broken and shuffled in the darkness,
and it was hauled up and down till Elliott began to doubt whether it
were going ahead at all. But at last he heard the welcome two blasts
from the locomotive ahead, and in another minute the long train was
labouring out.

This time he suffered no interference from any brakeman. The train was
a fast freight; it made no stop for nearly two hours, and then
continued after the briefest delay. The speed was high enough to make
the springless car most uncomfortable, till the jolts seemed to shake
the very bones loose in Elliott’s body. Every position he tried seemed
more uncomfortable than the last, but he was determined to stay with
the train as far as it went. After a few hours of being tossed about,
he became somewhat stupefied, and even dozed a little, and between
sleep and waking the night passed. In the first gray of morning the
train pulled up at the great water-tank at Palmyra Junction, fifteen
miles from Hannibal. He had travelled ninety miles that night.

The train went no farther. After waiting an hour or two for another,
Elliott decided to walk the rest of the way, and he left Palmyra at
nine o’clock, arriving in Hannibal, very tired and dusty, at a little
after three. At the bottom of the long street he caught a glimpse of
the broad Mississippi rolling yellow between its banked levees. The
first stage of the journey was accomplished; the next would be upon
the river.




                     CHAPTER III. THE ADVENTURER


When he went down to the levee an hour or two later, Elliott found no
boats preparing to sail, and a general lack of activity about the
steamer wharves. Sitting upon a stack of cotton-bales, he perceived a
young man of rather less than his own age, smoking with something of
the air of a busy man who finds a moment for relaxation. He was very
much tanned; he wore a flannel shirt and a black tie, and his clothes
were soiled with axle-grease and coal-dust. By these tokens Elliott
recognized that he had been for some time in contact with the
railways, but he did not look like a railway man, and his face wore a
bright alertness that distinguished it unmistakably from that of the
joyless hobo. Elliott took him for an amateur vagrant like himself.

“Seems to be nothing doing on the river. Do you know when there’s a
boat for St. Louis?” he asked, pausing beside the cotton-bales.

The lounger took stock of Elliott, keenly but with good nature.

“There ought to be one leaving about six o’clock, but I don’t see any
sign of her yet,” he responded. “Going down the river?”

“I thought I’d try it. Do you reckon the mate would take me on, even
if it was only to work my passage?”

“What do you want to do that for?” queried the other, with a sort of
astonished amusement.

“Why, I wanted to get to St. Louis, and after that up to Pittsburg or
Cincinnati.”

“If you want to get there easy, and get there alive, I don’t see why
you don’t swim,” remarked the stranger, dryly. “You don’t know much
about these river boats, do you? Man, they’re floating hells. The crew
is all niggers, and the toughest gang of pirates in America. They
knife a man for a chew of tobacco. The officers themselves don’t
hardly dare go down on the lower deck after dark,—but, Lord! they do
take it out of the black devils when they tie up at a wharf and start
to unload. If you can’t work for ten hours at a stretch toting a
hundred-pound crate in each hand, live on corn bread, and kill a man
every night, don’t try the boats. A white man wouldn’t last any longer
in that crowd than an icicle in hell.”

“The deuce!” said Elliott, disconcerted. “I’m very anxious to get to
Cincinnati, anyway, and the fact is I’m sort of strapped. I thought
I’d be all right when I got to the river.”

“Tried freights?”

“Yes, and they don’t suit me too well.”

“I’m going to St. Louis,” said the stranger, after a pause. “I’m going
to leave early in the morning, and I expect to get there in three
hours, and I don’t intend that it shall cost me a cent. To tell the
truth, I’m in something of the same fix as you are.”

“How’ll you manage it?” Elliott inquired, with much curiosity.

“Ride a passenger-train, on the top. I’ve just come from Seattle that
way,” he continued, after a meditative pause. “There’s no great amount
of fun in it, but I did it in six days.”

“The deuce!” exclaimed Elliott again. “Do you mean to say that you
came all the way from Seattle in six days, beating passenger-trains?”

“Every inch of it. I was in a hurry, and I’m in a hurry yet. Mostly I
rode the top, and sometimes the blind, and once I tried the trucks,
but next time I’ll walk first. The beast of a conductor found that I
was there, and poured ashes down between the cars.”

“You’re a genius,” said Elliott, looking at the audacious traveller
with admiration. “That’s beyond me.”

“Not a bit of it. I don’t do this sort of thing professionally, nor
you, either. Excuse me, I can see that you’re no more a bum than I am.
But a man ought to be able to do anything,—beat the hobo at his own
game if he’s driven to it. I simply had to get to Nashville, and I
hadn’t the money for a ticket. I did it, or I’ve nearly done it, and
you could have done it, too.

“Of course you could,” he went on, as Elliott looked doubtful. “Come
with me in the morning, if you’re game, and I’ll guarantee to land you
in St. Louis by eight o’clock.”

“Oh, I’m game all right,” cried Elliott, “if you’re sure I won’t be
troubling you.”

“Didn’t I say that I’m going, anyway. I mighty seldom let anybody
trouble me. Now look here: the fast train from Omaha gets here a
little before three, daylight. You meet me at the passenger depot at,
say, three o’clock. Better get as much sleep as you can before that,
for you sure won’t get any after it.”

He glanced at Elliott with a smile that had the effect of a challenge.
“Oh, I won’t back out,” Elliott assured him. “I’ll be there, sharp on
time. So long, till morning.”

Elliott went away a little puzzled by his new comrade, and not
altogether satisfied. The young fellow—he did not know his
name—evidently was in possession of an almost infernal degree of
energy. Plainly he was no “bum,” as he had said; it was equally plain
that he was, undeniably, not quite a gentleman; and, plainest of all,
that he was a man of much experience of the world and ability to take
care of himself in it. Elliott could not quite place him. He was a
little like a professional gambler down on his luck. It was quite
possible that he was a high-class crook escaping from the scene of his
latest exploit, and it was this consideration that roused Elliott’s
uneasiness. It was bad enough, he thought, to be obliged to dodge yard
watchmen and railway detectives without risking arrest for another
man’s safe-cracking.

Still, the association would last only for a few hours, and he went to
bed that night resolved to carry the agreement through. He was staying
at a cheap hotel, and there were times when he would have regarded its
appointments as impossible, but it struck him just now that he had
never known before what luxury was. It was four nights since he had
slept in a bed, and, as he stretched himself luxuriously between the
sheets, the idea of getting up at three o’clock seemed a fantastic
impossibility.

A thundering at the door made it real, however. He had left orders at
the desk to be called, and he pulled his watch from under the pillow.
There was no mistake; it was three o’clock, and, shivering and still
sleepy, he got up and lighted the gas.

Near the waterfront he found an all-night lunchroom, and hot coffee
and a sandwich effected a miraculous mental change. With increasing
cheerfulness he went on toward the depot through the deserted streets.
It was still dark and the stars were shining, but there was an
aromatic freshness in the air, and low in the east a tinge of faintest
pallor.

He found his prospective fellow traveller lounging about the
triangular walk that surrounds the depot, and saluted him with a
flourish of his pipestem. An almost imperceptible grayness was
beginning to fill the air, and sparrows chirped in the blackened trees
about the station.

“She’ll be along in a few minutes,” said the expert, referring to the
train. “By the way, my name’s Bennett; what’ll I call you? Any old
name’ll do.”

“Call me Elliott. That happens to be my real name, anyway. But say,
won’t it be a little too light soon for us to sit up in plain sight on
the roof of that train?”

“A little. But she doesn’t make any stop all the way to St. Louis, I
believe, and of course the people on board can’t see us. It’s easier
to climb up there by daylight, too, and—there she whistles.”

The few early passengers hurried out upon the platform. In half a
minute the train rolled into the station, its windows closely
curtained and the headlight glaring through the gray dawn. The
passengers went aboard; there was no demand for tickets at the car
steps, and Bennett and Elliott went straight to the smoker, where they
sat quietly till the train started again, after the briefest delay.

“Now come along,” muttered Bennett, and Elliott followed him across
the platforms and through the three day coaches full of dishevelled,
dozing passengers. The Pullmans came next, and luckily the juncture
was not vestibuled.

Without the slightest hesitation Bennett climbed upon the horizontal
brake-wheel, and put his hands on the roof of the sleeper. Then with a
vigorous spring he went up, crept to a more level portion of the roof,
and beckoned Elliott to follow him.

The train was now running fast, and the violent oscillation of the
cars made the feat look even more difficult and dangerous than it was.
But the idea that the conductor might come through and find him there
stimulated Elliott amazingly, and he clambered nervously upon the
wheel, and got his hands upon the grimy roof that was heaving like a
boat on a stormy sea. Securing a firm hold, he attempted to spring up,
but a violent lurch at that moment flung him aside, and he was left
dangling perilously till Bennett scrambled to his relief and by
strenuous efforts hauled him up to more security.

A furious blast of smoke and cinders struck his face. Before him
writhed the dark, reptilian back of the train, ending in the
locomotive, that was just then wreathed in a vivid glare from the
opened firebox. From that view-point the engine seemed to leap and
struggle like a frenzied horse, and all the cars plunged, rolling,
till it appeared miraculous that they did not leave the rails. Even as
he lay flat on the roof of the bucking car it was not easy to avoid
being pitched sideways. The cinders came in suffocating blasts with
the force of sleet, and presently, following Bennett’s example,
Elliott turned about with his head to the rear and lay with his face
buried in his arms. The roar of the air and of the train made speech
out of the question.

The position had its discomforts, but it seemed an excellent strategic
one. An hour went by, and it was now quite light. The fast express
continued to devour the miles with undiminished speed.

Little sleeping villages flashed by, as Elliott saw occasionally when
he ventured to raise his head Two hours; they were within forty miles
of St. Louis, when the train unexpectedly slackened speed and came to
a stop.

Elliott jumped to the conclusion that it had stopped for the sole
purpose of putting him off, but he observed immediately that it was to
take water. He glanced at Bennett, who was looking about with an air
of disgusted surprise.

There were men about the little station, and the trespassers flattened
themselves upon the car roof, hoping to escape notice, but some one
must have seen them. A gold-laced brakeman presently thrust his head
up from below, mounted upon the brake-wheel.

“Come now, get down out of that!” he commanded.

His conductor was looking on, and there was no possibility of coming
to an arrangement with him. Elliott slid down to the platform, much
crestfallen, followed by Bennett. Cinders fell in showers from their
clothing as they moved, and a number of passengers watched them with
unsympathetic curiosity as they walked away.

“By thunder, I hate to be ditched like that!” muttered Bennett,
glancing savagely about. “Let’s try the blind baggage, if there is
one. We’ll beat this train yet.”

Elliott doubted the wisdom of this second attempt, but they went
forward, looking for the little platform, usually “blind,” or
doorless, which is to be found at the front end of most baggage-cars.
It was there; none of the crew appeared to be looking that way, and
they scrambled aboard just as the train started.

It was a much more comfortable position than the top, for there were
iron rails to cling to and a platform to sit upon, while they were out
of the way of smoke and cinders. Immediately before them rose the
black iron hulk of the tender and it was not long before the fireman
discovered them as he shovelled coal, but he made no hostile
demonstration beyond playfully shaking his fist.

“We’re safe for St. Louis now. There won’t be another stop, and nobody
can see us or get at us while she’s moving,” remarked Bennett, with
satisfaction. He glanced over his shoulder, turned and looked again,
and his face suddenly fell. After a moment’s sober stare, he burst
into a fit of laughter.

“Done again! This ‘blind’ isn’t blind at all,” he cried, pointing to
the car-end.

It was hideously true. There was a narrow door which they had not
observed in the end of the car. Just then it was closed fast enough,
but there was no telling when it might be opened.

“Anyhow,” said Elliott, plucking up courage, “we’re making nearly
forty miles an hour, and every minute they leave us in peace means
almost another mile gained.”

“Yes, and there’s just a chance that nobody opens this door. I think
that if we stop again we’d better give this train up.”

They watched the door anxiously as the minutes and the miles went
past, but it remained unopened. The little stations flew
past—Clarksville, Annada, Winfield. It was not far to West Alton, and
that was practically St. Louis.

The end was almost in sight. But the door opened suddenly, and the
brakeman they had before encountered came out.

“I told you fellows to get off half an hour ago.”

“Now, look here,” said Bennett, persuasively. “We’re not doing this
train any harm at all. We’re not going inside; we’ll stay right here,
and we’ll jump the minute she slows for Alton. We’re no hobos. We’re
straight enough, only we’re playing in hard luck just now and we’ve
simply got to stay on this train. Now you go away, and just fancy you
never saw us, and you’ll be doing us a good turn.”

The brakeman reflected a moment, looked at them with an expression
more of sorrow than of anger, and returned to the car without saying
anything.

“He’s all right,” said Elliott.

“And every minute means a mile,” Bennett added.

But in less than a mile the brakeman returned, and the conductor came
with him.

“Come now, get off!” commanded the chief, crisply.

“We’ll get off if we have to,” said Bennett. “You must slow up for us,
though.”

“Slow hell!” returned the conductor. “I’ve lost time enough with you
bums. Hit the gravel, now!”

Elliott glanced down. The gravel was sliding past with such rapidity
that the roadway looked smooth as a slate.

“Great heavens, man, you wouldn’t throw us off with the train going a
mile a minute. It would be sure murder,” pleaded Bennett.

“I’ve no time to talk. Jump, or I’ll throw you off.” The conductor
advanced menacingly, with the brakeman at his shoulder.

Bennett lifted his arm with a gesture that the conductor mistook for
aggression. He whipped out his revolver and thrust it in Bennett’s
face. The adventurer, startled, stepped quickly back, clean off the
platform, and vanished.

A wave of rage choked Elliott’s throat, and he barely restrained
himself from flying at the throats of his uniformed tormentors.

“Now you’ve done it,” he said, finding speech with difficulty. “You’ve
killed the man.”

The conductor, looking conscience-stricken and anxious, leaned far out
and gazed back, and then pulled the bell-cord.

“He needn’t have jumped. I wouldn’t have thrown him off; never did
such a thing in my life,” he muttered.

“He didn’t jump. You assaulted him, when all he wanted was to get off
quietly. You pulled your gun on him, when neither of us was armed.
It’s murder, and you’ll be shown what that means.”

Elliott felt that he had the moral supremacy. The conductor made no
reply, and the train came to a stop.

“You’d better go back and look after your partner,” he said, in a
subdued manner. “I’m mighty sorry. I’d never have hurt him if he’d
stayed quiet. It’s only a couple of miles to Alton,” he added, as
Elliott jumped down, “and you can take him into St. Louis all right,
if he isn’t hurt bad. I’d wait and take you in myself if I wasn’t
eighteen minutes late already.”

The train was moving ahead again before Elliott had reached its rear.
He ran as fast as he could, and while still a great way off he was
relieved to see Bennett sitting up among the weeds near the fence
where he had been pitched by the fall. He was leaning on his arms and
spitting blood profusely.

“Are you hurt much, old man? I thought you’d be killed!” cried
Elliott, hurrying up.

Bennett looked at him in a daze. His face was terribly cut and bruised
with the gravel, and the blood had made a sort of paste with the
smoke-dust on his cheeks. His clothes were rent into great tatters.

“Don’t wait for me,” he muttered, thickly. “Go ahead. Don’t miss the
train. I’m—all right.”

But his head drooped helplessly, and he sank down. The ditch was full
of running water, and Elliott brought his hat full and bathed the
wounded man’s head and washed off the blood and grime. Bennett revived
at this, and looked up more intelligently.

Elliott examined him cursorily. His right arm was certainly broken,
and something appeared wrong with the shoulder-joint; it looked as if
it might be dislocated. There must be a rib broken as well, for
Bennett complained of intense pain in his chest, and continued to spit
blood.

“That conductor certainly ditched us, didn’t he?” he murmured. “Did he
throw you off too? I was a fool not to see that door.”

None of the injuries appeared fatal, or even very serious, with proper
medical care, and Elliott felt sure that the right thing was to get
his comrade into St. Louis and the hospital at once. But Bennett was
quite incapable of walking, and Elliott was not less unable to carry
him. He became feverish and semidelirious again; he talked vaguely of
war and shipwreck, but in his lucid moments he still adjured Elliott
to leave him.

Elliott remained beside him, though with increasing anxiety. After an
hour or two, however, he was relieved by the appearance of a gang of
section workers with their hand-car, to whom Elliott explained the
situation without reserve. They were sympathetic, and carried both
Elliott and Bennett into Alton on their car, where they waited for two
hours for a train to St. Louis.

Bennett was got into the smoker with some difficulty; he remained
almost unconscious all the way, and at the Union Station in St. Louis
there was more difficulty. Elliott was afraid to call a policeman and
ask for the ambulance, lest admission should be refused on the ground
that Bennett was an outsider. So, half-supporting and half-carrying
the injured man, he got him out of the station and a few yards along
the street. It was impossible to do more. A policeman came up, and
Elliott briefly explained that this man was badly hurt and would have
to go to the hospital at once. Then he hurried off, lest any questions
should be asked.




              CHAPTER IV. THE FATE OF THE TREASURE SHIP


Elliott watched the arrival of the ambulance from a distance, for he
felt certain that he looked a thorough tramp, with his rough dress and
the clinging coal grime of the railroad. Yet he did not wish to leave
the city without at least seeing Bennett again, and hearing the
medical account of his condition; and he was surprised to find how
much liking he felt for this light-hearted and resourceful vagabond
whom he had known for less than twenty-four hours.

Though his money was running dangerously short, he lodged himself at a
not wholly respectable hotel on Market Street, and next morning he
made what improvement he could in his appearance, and went to the
hospital. Visitors, it turned out, were not admitted that day, but he
was told that his friend was in a very bad way indeed. The young
doctor in white duck evidently did not consider his shabby-looking
inquirer as capable of comprehending technical details, and seemed
himself incapable of furnishing any other, but Elliott gathered that
Bennett had been found to have two or three ribs broken and his
shoulder dislocated, besides a broken arm and more or less severe
lacerations of the lungs. He was quite conscious, however, and the
doctor said that, if he grew no worse, it was likely that Elliott
would be permitted to see him on the next visiting day, which would be
the morrow.

At three o’clock the next afternoon, therefore, Elliott applied, and
was admitted without objection. A wearied-looking nurse led him
through the ward, where there seemed a visitor for every cot. Bennett,
she said, appeared a little better. His temperature had gone down and
he seemed to be recovering well from the shock, but Elliott was
startled at the pallor of the face upon the pillow. The brown tan
looked like yellow paint upon white paper, but Bennett greeted him
cheerfully and seemed nervously anxious to talk.

“Sit down here. This is mighty good of you,” he said. “I never got
ditched like that before. Did that conductor throw you off, too?”

“Oh, no. He stopped the train for me to get off. His conscience was
hurting him, I think.”

“Well, it’s going to cost the road something, I think. But you’ve
stayed by me like a brother,” Bennett went on, deliberatively, “and
I’ll make it up to you if I can, and I think I can. There’s something
I want to tell you about. It’s no small thing, and it’ll take an hour
or two, so you’ll have to come to-morrow afternoon, and bring a
note-book. We can’t talk with all these visitors swarming around.
They’ll let you in; I’ve fixed it up with the doctor. They said that
it was liable to kill me, but I told them that it was a matter of life
and death, and they gave in. It is a life and death business, too, for
a couple of dozen men have been killed in it already, and there’s a
round million, at least, in solid gold. What do you think of that?”

Elliott thought that his comrade was becoming delirious again, but he
did not say so. The nurse, who had been keeping an eye on him, came
up.

“I really think you’ve talked long enough,” she said, with a sweetness
that had the force of a command.

“All right,” said Elliott, getting up. “I’ll see you to-morrow, then.
Good-bye.”

“Will it really be all right, nurse, for me to have a long talk with
him to-morrow?” he inquired, as soon as he was out of Bennett’s
hearing.

“No, it isn’t all right, but the house surgeon has given his consent.
I think it’s decidedly dangerous, but your friend said it was an
absolute matter of life and death, and it may do him good to get it
off his mind. Come, since you’ve got permission; and if it seems to
excite him too much, I’ll send you away.”

Elliott felt a good deal of curiosity as to the secret which was to be
confided to him, for which a couple of dozen men had died already.
Probably it had something to do with Bennett’s rapid journey across
the continent, and Elliott felt some apprehension that he might be
about to be made the involuntary accessory to some large and unlawful
exploit.

His curiosity made him willing to take chances, however, and he waited
impatiently for the next afternoon. When it came, he found Bennett
propped up on three pillows and looking better. The nurse said that he
really was better, that all would probably go well, but that it would
be slow work, and this slowness seemed to irritate the patient most of
all.

“First,” he said, when the nurse was out of earshot, “I’ll tell you
what you must do for me. You’ll have to go out of your way to do it,
but, unless I’m mistaken, you’ll find it worth your while. I want you
to go to Nashville, Tennessee, and I want you to go at once. It’s a
case for hurry. I can’t write now, and I daren’t telegraph. Maybe the
men I want aren’t there, but you can find where they’re gone. Will you
go?”

Elliott hesitated half a moment, wishing he knew what was coming next,
but he promised—with a mental reservation.

“That’s all right, then,” said Bennett, “because I know you’re
square,”—a remark which touched Elliott’s conscience. “It’s quite a
tale that I want you to carry to them, and I’ll have to cut it as
short as I can, and you’d better make notes as I go along, for every
detail is important.

“I told you how I’d crossed the country from the Coast. I had come as
straight as I could from South Africa. I wasn’t in any army there;
that’s not in my line. It don’t matter what I was doing; I was just
fishing around in the troubled waters.

“Anyway, I had a big deal on that was going to make or break me, and
it broke me. I was in Lorenzo Marques then, and it was the most
God-awful spot I ever struck. It was full of all the scum of the war,
every sort of ruffians and beats, Portuguese and Dutch and Boers and
British deserters, and gamblers and mule-drivers from America, all
rowing and knifing each other, and it was blazing hot and they had
fever there, too.

“I’ve seen a good many wicked places, but I never went against
anything like that, and I wanted to get back to America. The American
consul wouldn’t do anything for me at all, but I saw an American
steamer out in the river,—the _Clara McClay_ of Philadelphia,—loading
for the East Coast and then Antwerp. She was the rottenest sort of
tramp, but she caught my eye because she was the only American ship I
ever saw in those waters. So I went aboard and asked the mate to sign
me on as a deck-hand to Antwerp, and he just kicked me over the side.

“Anyway, I was determined to go on that ship, mate or no mate, for
there wasn’t anything else going my way, and I expected to die of
fever if I waited. So I went aboard again the night before she sailed,
and they were getting in cargo by lantern light, and there was such a
stir on the decks that nobody paid any attention to me. I got below,
and dropped through the hatch into the forehold. They had pretty
nearly finished loading by that time, and pretty soon they put the
hatches on. It was as dark as Egypt then, and hotter than Henry, with
an awful smell, but after awhile I went to sleep, and when I woke up
she was at sea, and rolling heavily.

“When I thought she must be good and clear of land, I started to go up
and report myself, but when I’d stumbled around in the dark for
awhile, I found that the bales and crates were piled up so that I
couldn’t get near the hatch. So I sat down and thought it over. I had
a quart bottle of water with me, but nothing to eat, and I began to be
horribly hungry.

“When I’d been there ten or twelve hours, I guess, I tried moving some
of the crates to get to the hatchway, but they were too heavy. But
while I was lighting matches to see where I was, I saw a lot of cases
just alike, and all marked with the stencil of a Chicago brand of
corned beef, and it looked like home. I thought it must be a
providential interposition, for I was pretty near starving, and it
struck me that I might rip one of the boards off, get out a can or
two, and nail the case up again.

“The cases were big and heavy, and they were all screwed up and banded
with sheet iron, but I had regularly got it into my head that I was
going to get into one of them, and at last I did burst a hole. When I
stuck my hand in, it nearly broke my heart. There wasn’t anything
there at all, so far as I could make out, but a lot of dry grass.

“It occurred to me that this must be another commissary fraud, but
when I tried to move the case it seemed heavy as lead. I poked my arm
down into the grass and rummaged around. At last I struck something
hard and square down near the middle, but it didn’t feel like a meat
tin. I worked it out, and lit a match. It was a gold brick, and it
must have weighed ten pounds.”

“Solid, real gold?” cried Elliott, with a sudden memory of Salt Lake.

“The real thing. It didn’t take me long to gut that box, and I dug out
nineteen more bricks, nearly fifty thousand dollars’ worth, I
reckoned. No wonder it was heavy. Then I looked over the rest of the
cases, and they all looked just alike, and there were twenty-three of
them, so I figured up that there must be considerably over a million
in those boxes.”

“Stolen from the Pretoria treasury!” Elliott exclaimed.

“I believe it was, but what made you think of that?”

“Never mind; I’ll tell you later. Go on.”
